good evening everyone thanks for tuning
in lhasa montgomery here with the
penultimate episode in our series that
sort of kind of offered you a little
overview of the history of poetry and
the tongue dynasty
I think we've lingered long enough and
the height on and that we might move on
to the middle tongue period this is the
post on Lucien rebellion era all the
greats who are revered today and who we
previously discussed in past episodes
lead by du feu long way Hmong on
they were all gone and the Emperor to
whose cayenne era name defined those
times that among other accolades was
called China's Golden Age of poetry
Emperor Shen song he too by 762 was gone
around the Year 772 bai juyi was born
another tongue poet beloved throughout
the ages for his particular style of
poetry ever what he stood for
he liked du feu and others I mentioned
had a pretty strong social conscience
that didn't go over too well with the
establishment he wanted to give the
common people a better deal than what
they had traditionally gotten from
Chinese society I have friends who will
swear he was the greatest bai juyi he
has a lot of fans among the cognoscenti
he was born in thai urine in the very
same Shaanxi province is wrong way but
spent his early years in southern hood
on he came from a poor but educated
family and his father was a minor cog
and the government bureaucracy there was
an old saying I've mentioned it before
so Quon fasse hai attained riches
through working in the government well
that didn't apply to everyone and
certainly not to the by family just like
Li Bai is also called Li paw same deal
with bai juyi you'll also see him
referred to in more than a few sources
as bought ue like a lot of aspiring sons
of ambitious parents he was sent north
to sit for the gene share exams the only
ticket to the big time in those days
and first centuries thereafter by jury
passed an 800 and like the rest of the
poets I mentioned in this series he
worked in and around the capital hung on
in the early part of his career he did
well I mentioned in that leap by episode
that by Julie was also appointed to the
prestigious Hanlin Academy 807 to 815 he
served at the imperial court as reminder
on the left as opposed to the right the
post held by both doufu and Wong way
back in their day so he he wasn't some
lower or middle rank official like his
father in Chinese he had two nicknames
the sure Wong and the sure more
the poet king and the poet magician by
Chu Yi was also called the people's poet
I read if there was one single character
in his poetry that couldn't be
understood by the people literate or
illiterate he revised it he advocated
for plain no-frills poetry that didn't
require a formal Confucian education to
understand and said what it said and
didn't hide behind all the poetry speak
that could mean any number of things in
classical Chinese bai juyi
like to keep it simple he was a
contemporary of Han Yu the great
statesman and prose master Han you still
wrote in that old style that would be
familiar to anyone with a traditional
education by Chu Yi parted ways with
this style and he believed the poetry
should avoid being too highfalutin for
the masses so when his poetry wandered
into the realm of the political he got
swatted down some of his poems got too
close to the nerve endings and after he
had overstepped his bounds on some
issues in the year 815 by got himself
exiled to jo Jung Jung Shi province
haven't been there but I heard it's
beautiful but in the ninth century Gio
Chang was pretty far from all the action
and so this wasn't what you'd call a
much sought
after assignment he also got sent to
another location in su chuan and I'm not
talking Chengdu or Chongqing that's how
they did it in ancient China if an
official gun on someone's wrong side but
didn't commit too heinous a crime he got
sent out to work at these places and the
farther from the capital they were
usually the less attractive they were to
the official being sent to serve there
by geez period of Exile ended in 819 and
he was recalled back to the capital Chun
on and after a few rough years serving
in law young and then to sue Jo he was
sent to the city of Hangzhou to service
prefect you know like the governor he
was a more than capable leader and left
Hangzhou in much better shape than when
he first got there one legendary
improvement credited to bite you eat
during his hangzhou period was the
construction of a causeway you all know
the suti on west lake the hsu causeway I
walked it many times
built during the time of the northern
song when su sure was serving there well
by the ninth century way before su sure
his time Westlake was in bad shape and
had fallen into a very degraded State
the upshot being the local peasants who
depended on the lake for their
livelihood suffered so by Chu Yi called
for repairs to the dikes and for this
causeway to be built into the lake it
was called the by Comte named for by
Joey don't bother looking for it because
it wasn't there anymore there is a by
shoddy that was built later on and
became known simply as the by D the by
causeway to honor by Chui and the good
deeds he did for the people while
serving in Hangzhou some say it was by
Chui who gave West Lake its name
two of his poems referred to the lake by
this name and during the northern song
it officially became West Lake but she
who mmm some say this magical name for
this beautiful and historic Lake came
from by Chui
so he served there from a 25 to a 27 and
then went back to Chung on for a stretch
but he had become ill over the years and
suffered various maladies that slowed
him down in his final years he built a
place for himself right on the eheh the
e river where the Longmen grottoes are
the Longmen sure cool
just south of law yung that's a unesco
world heritage site I'll have you know
in fact by jury's tomb is located right
there at the site of the Longmen
grottoes
so next time you're there on the east
bank of the eheh river there's the by n
or white park and you could go pay your
respects and visit by Chuy's tomb
so by Chui he had a nice government
career he believed the rules of society
didn't apply to his case and did things
his way where he saw injustice he used
his fame to speak out sometimes he
didn't get into any trouble sometimes he
did he was famous in his own day all
throughout China instant gratification
and bite your yeast case none of this
waiting a half a century before people
started to appreciate his work it he had
quite a business going selling his poems
he compiled his own collection of 2,840
poems called the by sure Chang Ching Qi
by Judy's best friend and literary
comrade who he was most associated with
was named you engine I'll just quickly
mention him he was a heavy hitter in a
town government for two decades serving
briefly for four months as Chancellor
under Emperor moots own he came from
royalty claiming his family could trace
their ancestry to the Northern Wei Kings
who reigned during the northern and
southern dynasties period and he had
four of his poems included in the 300
tonk poems collection the engine was
also the first notable figure in the
Tong to place du feu on an exalted
pedestal and it wouldn't be the last as
see but these two by Chewie and your
engine they collaborated and became
known for a style of writing known as un
hurty you're in her style after the era
name of the gentle Emperor very stripped
down no frills or schmaltz added heavy
on the vernacular and considered by many
to be a bit vulgar yet still maintaining
a whiff of the ancient styles these two
friends are also associated with a style
of poetry that became known as the new
youthful you might remember the year
full of the Han Dynasty Emperor Wu I
spoke about this earlier in part to the
music Bureau and the poems in the style
of this Bureau this new youthful form
was revived in the tongue by Zhu Li is
the poet most associated with it
although Li Bai and others also composed
youthful style poetry in repackaging
some of the old youthful works these
poets spoke out against injustice and
corruption but in a way so subtle and
indirect no one could say anything but
if you listen to the poem you know what
they were talking about by Chewie and
you and John did much to fan the flames
of popularity of this 8th century
version of this 1st century BCE style of
poetry they both served together in
Cheung on between 803 and 810 gen John
had a nice long and successful career
intermixed with periods of banishment he
had done very well as a literary figure
and was also celebrated in his de yen
and by jury just like Li Bai and du feu
kept up a famous correspondence always
exchanging poems I mentioned the mu Tong
Emperor and that your engine served as a
high-ranking official in his court
well this Emperor was a big fan of his
work during the ake 20s and john enjoyed
a bit of shine which of course
read all kinds of controversy from his
political rivals I guess I guess that's
a common theme in Chinese history it
seems very few officials who serve the
emperor at his court managed to get
through their career without some sort
of setback
eunjin was no exception his career was
filled with great praise and derision
for various acts of arrogance and greed
no let's just call him controversial his
most famous work isn't even a poem it's
a short story called ying-ying drunk the
tale of the oriole this was the engines
masterpiece and was also considered one
of the more important works of
literature to come out of the whole Tang
Dynasty so despite a classic rocky road
surfing in the government
Yin Chun was renowned for his writing
and he was always mentioned in
discussing bai juyi
these two bosom buddies eunjin and by
Zhu ye they had made a vow early on
called the Green Mountain pact and they
swore that as soon as they could swing
it they leave the battleground of the
imperial government and retire to some
remote location and live a Taoist life
as recluse but yen John died in 831 15
years before by Zhu ye so it wasn't
meant to be and after both men passed on
those who loved and respected their work
refer to them as your end by joining
together that the characters of their
surnames to say you loved you and by
poetry was to say you loved the poetry
of your engine and bite you II by Juiz
two most famous poems guess most famous
is his Chunkin good the song of
everlasting sorrow I'd read it for you
but it's a hundred and twenty verses
this poem tells the story of Emperor
Shang Tsung and Yong qui fais you could
say this poem written in 8:09
fifty-three years after young qui fais
was strangled
7:56 perhaps more than anything else
stoked the early legend of that most
tragic story of Shenzhen and Yan qui
fais that went on to inspire countless
other literary and artistic works I bet
a few movies and operas as well it was
written during by Chuy's Chung and
period when he served up there with your
engine the other renowned work of bai
juyi
might be the song of the PIPA player he
pushing at 616 characters again too long
for this episode by Chui wrote this poem
during his Joe Chung period when he had
been demoted and served there as an
official it was written for a woman
whose PIPA playing had attracted by jury
and he invited her one evening to come
play for him and he was touched by her
sour 'fl story and wrote this poem for
her this unnamed woman who had liked by
jury found herself in cho jeong after
leaving the sophistication and pleasures
of the capital and due to circumstances
she had married unwillingly beneath her
station to a merchant and lamented to
bite you ye of this sad fate she now
lived he was able to relate to her being
in a somewhat similar situation at the
time and immortalized her with this poem
let's read a couple of PI Chuy's shorter
poems
this one isn't one of his greatest but
it's one of by Chuy's most famous here
he sort of goofs and lotsa it's called
do lotsa reading loud sir then it goes
like this the old gentleman he refers to
in the poem is loud sir
youngja boo church more su you Wei
lowchen wrote out law to ensure Georgia
yen heard su raw watch N 1 those who
speak do not know those who know are
silent I heard this saying from the old
gentleman if the old gent
was one who knew the way why did he feel
able to write five thousand words a
slight jab - lotsa and the daodejing
a work that weighed in at about five
thousand characters if he who knows
should say nothing
well that ran contrary to what he said
about those who knew they should say
nothing yet he loud sir a man who knew
he had a lot to say by jooyi having some
fun with this poem yeah loads us expense
here's a poem he wrote for his closest
friend and literary companion engine
called seeing engines poem at Blue Ridge
station LAN Xiao Yi Chen you and Joe
sure you and Joe was another name of you
and John goes like this lunch ow twin
shrink wager Qinling Chiu Fung or Chiu
sure made thou eat ting Sheng Shama Shin
Chang raw to me Jen sure blue ridge
spring snow the day you went away
Ching Hills autumn wind the day I did
the same at every station when I
dismount the first thing I do is check
the walls and pillars for a poem of
yours when bai juyi
died in 846 the tongue emperor shenzhen
wrote a poem in his honor praising him
by saying that his name lives on forever
because the little children knew how to
recite the song of everlasting sorrow
and the old people could sing the song
of the people player when looking at the
middle tongue period of classical poetry
the three most prominent figures are
perhaps by juyi again john and huh
they all knew each other and were part
of this talented core of literati who
were in all three of their lifetimes
well-known throughout the land
we already took a quick look at bai juyi
and you engine let's now spend a few
minutes getting to know shet all she
was something else ow among her
many distinctions Chinese history has
called her both the tangka Sudan you
tiger yi one of the top four female
talents of the tongue and the shoe Jang
Sudan Utes hi jury one of the top four
female talents of su chuan
she lived around 768 - 831 contemporary
with the two men have introduced so far
I keep giving you these dates that are
not quite exact no one up till now has
been able to produce you know the birth
certificate of many of these famous
poets but we know approximately when
they lived and died and you know that's
good enough for me
there were several female poets of note
from this Tong period but shitao i think
i'm not out of line saying was the most
famous perhaps along with you Shan cheek
quite an interesting life story in
addition to the popularity of her work
like so many stories of renowned
scholars and literary figures there are
legends recorded that attest to Xu at
all as being one of those gifted child
prodigies already composing serious
poetry at eight years old her father was
an official serving in Chung on when she
was born however he was sent to serve in
the city of Chengdu and it's in this
city
Chengdu where Sri akaal story takes
place her childhood and early ears are
full of commentary but not too many
facts that we could hang our hats on
growing up in the family she did she at
I received an early education and showed
a lot of talent but you know eighth
century China the career path for women
it wasn't what it is today her father
died when she was still young and
without this breadwinner around anymore
she ended up being registered with the
guild of courtesans and entertainers
courtesans were trained in providing
paying customers with witty and
enjoyable conversation playing music and
reciting poetry sort of like a Japanese
geisha
prostitutes and courtesans were not the
same
although sexual services were part of a
courtesans bag of tricks their main job
description was to entertain and it
didn't take long before she became very
much in demand despite any woman's great
talents or abilities back then the only
way to really make it in the world was
to have some man standing behind her who
could provide a platform for her to
display her talents and how there
was no exception the man in her life
was named Waco he was the military
governor of sheet1 the administrative
region around Sichuan province based in
Chengdu he was one of the more
successful generals in the history of
the Tong wars with the Tibetan Empire
and later than nan Chao kingdom she
caught his eye and before long in her
late teens in 785 wait GAO made shitao
his official hostess now in a position
such as this shirt I was able to mix
with a lot of VIPs who passed through
this Southwest part of China and Chengdu
had always been a place of exquisite
culture going back to the ancient times
of the Shu Kingdom still is today in
fact so she did quite well and thrived
and it didn't take long before word
spread about Shriya tall and her poetry
men dominated in the government and of
course the military I guess you could
say the same thing today in the PRC
twelve centuries later and not just that
in the Arts and Letters as well it was
heavily a man's world
that's one reason Chateau was able to
attract so many fans of her work the
history books don't mention her beauty
or anything much about her physical
being it was her talent that made
shit-housed stand out this was why other
poets such as by Chu Yi were so
attracted to her after her benefactor
wait Gao passed an 805 she reinvented
herself and
the next quarter-century lived a quiet
and reclusive life he had left her a
considerable sum to live off for the
rest of her days
reclusive she was but she remained a
major figure in the Chengdu literary
scene engine eleven years her junior it
was said became one of her lover's she
had plenty of admirers too but a lot has
been written that says shitao and Jen
John had a long and passionate
relationship in her own lifetime she
compiled a collection of 450 poems
called the Ching Chang Chi the Brocade
River collection Jin means brocade the
Jean Jung is the river that flows
through the middle of Chengdu one of
Chengdu snick names is the Brocade city
because of this river of the 450 poems
contained in this collection
less than a hundred survived to our day
the Brocade River collection the Jin
Cheng Chi and it's one of those works
that got lost over the centuries but had
been talked about in many sources in the
shantung sure the Complete Book of tong
poetry one of the Kings XI Emperor's
trophy compilations you could find 89 of
her poems she was quite prolific it said
producing over 5,000 poems and songs
during her lifetime one other cool thing
about Xie Tao was that she played a
pretty significant role in launching the
paper making industry in Chengdu she
invented a kind of paper that became
known as shitao jen-jen means writing
paper she created this personal
stationery not only for herself to write
her poems on but for others as well and
it's been called the first ever personal
stationery of its kind and came in a
kind of pinkish color due to the
hibiscus flowers that she used in its
manufacture although none of this
Jojen paper survived the 12th centuries
that have passed since her time it was
written about a great deal she lived out
her last years as a Taoist nun and past
sometime around 831 there were only
seven more decades of life left in the
Tong dynasty by then as a poet
calligrapher and inventor who lived an
independent life and did what she
pleased she made a name for herself in
her own time and for all the years that
followed and into our day and if you
find yourself in Chengdu after you've
grooved on do fools thatched hut the do
fool Sultan it's a mere half hour drive
over to the Wang Chung local yen the one
Jung tower Park where you can go visit
the how Memorial Hall and pay your
respects at her tomb let me read a
couple of her poems and then we could
wrap things up and call it a day here's
one called casual lovers VIN yang Tao
Luo Yin man Xiang Qi Liang Liang yin
yang Xiao Tong you Twitter Jung bougwan
Cho Fung's all this green hero fills me
with his scent again and again we
briefly join in love long days of
passion are only a diversion ignoring
how soon it will grow cold between us
and this is one she wrote for her
alleged lover
eunjin who she refers to in the poem as
yen wager and it's called song washer
hug and wager sending an old style poem
to Yen wager sure pian di Ren Jo
sheeni Fung Wong war dutour yes yeah
young hua Lian and Dan Wu Chao helio way
each way jeong-ja
bu tung-shun true
zhang gongjin shih tzus way lotta Hunan
show shirt Gingka sure Chao nan are
chanting a poem with attitude anyone can
do
exquisite scenery I alone understand
beneath the moon
chanting flowers cherished the quiet
dark and rainy mornings inscribed upon
the Willows make me sigh we've long been
taught that Jasper lies and deepest
depths all my women's writings I've
written in my own way big shots don't
get to decide what is worth keeping and
you can stick to teaching men share Tao
everyone one of the Great's from this
middle tongue period okay ladies and
gentlemen's I do hope you enjoyed this
episode I think we'll finish things off
next time in part 8 when we look at the
poets from the late Tong period a nice
miserable age from Chinese history will
feature of course the most famous name
from that time li Shang Yin do join us
for this grand finale coming to you in a
mere two weeks time until then this is
Laszlo Montgomery coming to you from the
City of Angels Los Angeles California
please please do consider coming back
one more time for possibly another
exciting episode of the China history
podcast